Further YouTube API we are going to need a key.
But the good thing is that we can actually reduce our Ajax G-S function to pull that information back.
So the idea here is that we're going to use AJAX to yes output our wikis stuff and then do another Ajax
G-S and output our YouTube content.
So let's open up our editor and YouTube.
Unlike worth the wiki it's not an open API.
You do need an API key.
So there is some stuff that you're going to need to do in order to get that AP Ickey.
And first of all you need a Google account.
So if you don't have a Google account already then you can go out and set a Google account.
Most of you should have a Google account so go over to Google dot com forward slash accounts you account
to create a new account if you need to create a new account and once you've created account so all accounts
have ability to go over to the developers cons..
So let me open up the developers console and I've already got a few apps in here and so on.
I've already gone to YouTube one but we'll create another one within the upcoming.
Within this lesson as well so that I can walk you through how to create that and within the Google console
the developers console you've got to get your application registered so you can create a brand new application.
It's got some information here how to create a brand new application.
So let's go ahead and create a brand new one.
So going into projects we're going to create a brand new project we're going to Ajax and we'll just
create it there.
So there we go.
So we've created a brand new project and you're going to need to create a project in order to have a
bunch of API to get those API and so on and so next thing that you do once you've created the project
you can open up the API library.
It's got all of the links here on this one page which is nice and convenient and you see that it opens
up that developers console again.
So here is where we select our project.
So go ahead and select a project and what we need is we need a YouTube API V3 and then go ahead and
enable it.
And once you enable it you're going to have to create a key as well.
And of course they walk you through here as well how to do that.
So it does take a little bit of time.
And then next you need to get your API key so you can do create credentials web browser Ajax.
So there is a generator or API key and then you can copy this one over done.
So it's Siri to go you've got an API key that you can use.
It's unrestricted and you are going to have to create your own.
Because I am going to have to disable this one after I do launch this video.
So just for warning that you do need to create your own API key for the stuff.
So we are ready to hook to that YouTube API.
So what I usually like to do when I just grab the key.
So where I'm going to be using it I like to just paste the key there because this is going to be something
that we're going to have to make use of.
So the next part of it is connecting over to the YouTube API.
So the path for that is HTP as coal and forward slash forward slash w w w Google API is forward slash
YouTube for its slash v3 for Slash search because that's what we want to do.
And then we need some parameters so we're passing in part so we're getting snippet and key.
So this is where you need to add in the key value.
And then all we need to do is have a query turn.
So there is our key and Qs sets for the query term.
So this is whatever the term is.
We just do test for now and then we've also got Naks results
and this is where we can specify how many results we want back.
So let's first of all let's try that out and this should work within your browser and it's always a
good idea to test that out within your browser.
So there you go.
So we were able to search.
We got a bunch of data back.
So we were ready to move on to the next step.
That's where we can actually make use of this data within our Web page and we can see that it's got
some interesting stuff here so it's got thumbnails.
We're going to make use of these pull these thumbnails title description so we can pull this information
back as well and we can then also link out to the video because they've got the video IDs there.
And YouTube is just by video ID can just create the you elf to link to it.
So we're all ready to go.
So that's the data that we need in order to continue to build out our application.
So next lesson is to jump back into our editor and continue to build out our Ajax request to the YouTube
API because now that we know that's working.
So if you haven't done so go ahead and set up and get your own API key because you are going to need
it for the next lesson.